summon now quick this town died in Dagon
murdered hey guys Greg and Ryan back
breaking down another episode of true
detective season 3 we're already on
episode 6 yes we are hunters in the dark
now again
spoiler warning if you haven't watched
this episode just yet go watch it and
come on back
also make sure you subscribe to the
channel because we have breakdowns for
every single episode and maybe when the
season is over we'll go back and do some
more - detective stuff you know maybe
just maybe we're not gonna do season 2
though
why not because it never happened to
Greg it's not a bad season sometimes the
thing happens let's split your life
visit before and after I got like 500 at
this point and this is your first
okay let's get started hunters in the
dark what does that title refer to
hundreds in the dark there has been a
film I believe hunter in the dark back
in the 70s and then a novel hunters in
the dark but I think specifically when
you're talking about true detective
there are multiple hunters especially in
this episode but we can refer to the
different characters that are doing
their own hunting obviously know that
mr. Hoyt we don't have a first name by
the way
no but Hoyt literally hunts yes for his
extended period of time in an African
safari so yes a hunter wayne is
consistently hunting every episodes in
Vietnam he was hunting for people in the
jungles out there even Amelia she's
hunting in this episode as well she's
kind of the third detective you can say
she's yeah I don't even said it she's
the third investigator yes mystery I
love it and finally Tom Purcell mm-hmm
this is the first time in this season
that the the point-of-view kind of
shifted from our main characters to
someone on the fringe Tom Purcell and
kind of showed him on his own little
hunt trying to get down to the bottom of
this and figure out what find his
daughter
all right we started off with Wayne
Amelia in bed first up to the shooting
yes and he has a cool line that he gives
her a very very smooth head of the day
when a gunfight the second most exciting
thing happens to you it's a great wine
and he's got a bunch of great lines in
this episode bio - Hershel ollie there's
what else can you say at this point
incredible performance I mean every
single episode every episode and this
episode he has delivered some just jams
now this conversation between them is
pretty interesting besides the fact it
being their first hookup you know
amelia is like inquiring about his past
and wants to know more about what
happened to him and what happened in
Vietnam and your memory he keeps on
saying about like he doesn't think much
of it and doesn't try to remember those
things and you just kind of you know
pushes it to the side it's like a
superpower to me I can't even understand
that how you do that just lucky I guess
and it's so ironic because you know in
the later years of his life and 2015
back he wishes he could remember those
things you know he used to be able to
forget them and not let it affect his
day to day but it's definitely not a
superpower
he's in 2015 and he's trying to piece
together what happened to his life let's
go back to Tom now in the last episode
we got that phone call who we think is
Julie on the line and now the police are
trying to circle back around to Tom they
want to go back and like pinch him a
little bit more on this which would be
the obvious way to to react when you get
a phone call from Julie from the same
that guy that guy stop acting like my
dad you know who is this guy you have to
then be suspicious of his motives and
what he was doing and kind of double
check your stuff the thing that I found
interesting is that you know he is
completely betrayed he feels yeah his
love especially between him and roll
yeah that look at rollin it was just
like he was heartbroken yeah and you can
see that I think this is the moment
where he completely breaks and we find
out later in the episode of what happens
you know he it was like a turning point
in his life where he could no longer
just sit there he had to do something
about it his one friend his one friend
left in this world after what happened
to his family yeah now he feels like
he's just turned on him so he's alone
she's mine you and I just want to give a
shout out I think this was probably the
best performance of this episode scoot
mcnairy did an incredible job all season
long with Tom but uh-huh
when you're in that interrogation room
and he is screaming and breaking down
and the veins in his forehead I mean it
was all like body and mental and
emotional performance it was it was
incredible to watch it reminds me of
Matthew Lillard scene from Twin Peaks
the return his interrogation scene was
so good in heartbreaking now another
thing that we see going on throughout
this whole season and through the 80s
and 90s is you know the higher ups and
the police and the law enforcement
trying to pin it pin this on someone
yeah I'm the easiest target they can't
bit of public pressure and everything
going on
to close this case as soon as possible
right they don't want to just to drag
out too long and you know our mr. Kent
the Attorney General in 1990 again there
there's they're looking for the easiest
explanation you know they think Tom
might have collaborated with Woodard to
pull this off and it's like there's no
evidence that's that backs that up at
all but it's like could these two have
done it like yeah let's let's throw them
sure sure they could it's clear that
Hayes knows that something's up here
those things are not as gullible or he
doesn't want to you know he's not
looking for this easy out he really
wants to find the truth yeah and the
difference between him and Rowland is
you know Rowland's willing to play the
game a little bit in terms of like you
know going through the hoops that he has
to do sees this as just another case
right with the rest of his cases but
when it comes to Wayne this is this is
his life now we learn a little bit more
about Tom Purcell the detectives go back
they check a few of his acquaintances
and coworkers and they find out a few
more things about him one that he
apparently he was drinking a lot on
their job they're just checking off
let's turn and see if they can find
anything that can you know pin him there
and also they found out that he was
going to Gabe ours yeah you have to
remember around this time in Arkansas
it's not a very open society at all no
you know race homosexuality all sorts of
things you're an outsider and you cannot
bring that up at all no your uncovering
parts about Tom's past that we didn't
know about but that doesn't mean it that
he had anything to do with not this it's
another chance for the detectives to go
well this might have had something now
we have our smoking gun or anything that
way and they also find what the church
pamphlet as well on homosexuality so
it's again pointing towards this idea
that maybe he had he had something to do
with it but it's unlikely at all yeah
and even in that drive between Roland
and Wayne you can tell that Roland is
very skeptical about the whole thing
about even tying Tom into it like it's
clear that tom was an extremely hurt and
like shattered individual especially
after you know who knows how long he was
living in the closet but also on top of
this now he's lost his kids having to go
through this and then on top of that
getting getting the the finger pointed
at you for
doing this I mean the only story someone
of all this and I feel like also rolling
probably knew some of this as well and
he's just telling them like this might
not be the route here we know they were
meeting somebody else out there Tom
wouldn't do that is he if he wouldn't
and we're clear
we've got to get this right
all right Harris James let's talk about
Harris James you and I we did not like
this guy from the get-go
remember last episode we it was revealed
that he yes spotted the evidence at the
Woodard and yeah he was like oh that's
that kids backpack how convenient oh
cool
and where does he work now Hoyt yeah he
works at Hoyt food insecurity and
apparently he was you know highway
patrolman but he also did some shifts at
security at white he's there apparently
we find out what he says the exact line
that I think oh that's Michael Clayton's
job basically he is the Michael Clayton
of this company exactly so I mean
extremely suspicious individual if he
wasn't already before now to tie him
into the whole Hoyt universe
he's someone to watch yes 100% yes and
NIC pizzolatto already says to that
listen it's you got to focus in on white
now this is our biggest part of this
case right now as Hoyt Foods had a lot
to do with this and as we mentioned
earlier in that scene you can see
another shot of hunt at him from hunt
him hunting mm-hmm photo and also there
was a really kind of random suggestion
as well when he kind of hit on Wayne at
the end of the whole conversation he
looked good yeah great body great body
great body and it was like you know
obviously maybe a innuendo that he was
in the closet as well and it's something
that like you know isn't spoken about
but that there are people that are kind
of hiding their true selves in this
society but I'll admit now and then I
miss wiling away my days cruising around
eating doughnuts
I don't need don't know I can tell you
got a good body detective appreciate
your time now speaking of Harris Eliza
and the next scene brings him up brings
up that name again it's a Wayne and he's
like
I have no idea what you're talking about
I've never heard that name yeah there's
this theory going around that I read on
the Internet of like Wayne in 2015 he
he's playing up some of his his sickness
that he's he's kind of using that in
order to what she knows yeah see what
she knows to see what Rolen knows to see
what all these people know and to see if
he can kind of figure out who's on his
side and who's against him that he's
maybe a little bit more with it than we
think he is or that he's led to believe
I believe that yeah so do i and and I
and I think that you know this is
obviously him playing dumb because I
think that I think something horrible
happened that he was a part of that has
to do with with Harris James like we
said earlier about Amelia doing some
detective work herself she goes to this
halfway house like I guess it's owned by
the church or something it's not a
nunnery we get a lot of clues here about
what's going on here and how she might
have gotten there in the first place we
know that they were helping girls take
care of girls who were lost but then
some things happen with drugs they were
also apparently pimping girls out at
some point we still don't know what
happened how she got there and what
happened how they died would she leave
how did she get out of this place she
was at with the Hoyt thing how does she
get to here and how would she save you
know she's why would they keep her alive
exactly yeah so it's a theme that we've
seen throughout true detective season
one as well about these people on the
fringe of society right that are the
women that are kind of taken advantage
of by people in power someone with a lot
of money men that are in a position that
can take advantage of them and they're
kind of discarded by other people and
kind of brought brought into these rings
these prostitution pedophilia rings and
we get a little more insight into one of
the girls brings it up to a million yeah
and there she's telling I read a book
something going on here write a book
about the what happens to kids in this
area specifically women and that is like
that's season one true detective yeah
there you want to write a book
right about what happens to kids out
here what happens to girls so heavy
themes of a wider conspiracy that goes
far beyond just what we've seen so far
but also there were a couple shots that
piqued our interest yeah of someone
doing the landscaping outside we see the
shot there's two specific shots of
someone out there outside of this
location and if you look closely on the
side of the truck it says are doing
landscaping are doing is the last name
Mike are doing who we saw in earlier in
this season yeah the camera frettin it
holds on that shot and we were both like
why are they holding on this shot why
even show us this unless there's some
reason and this makes sense because it's
again going back to the case and the
detectives maybe things they missed
talking to parents possibly these kids
they did talk to Mike so at this point
you with the last name in there to makes
you wonder if it's the family had
something to do with this too maybe it
has something to do with them right and
it makes you kind of question about how
deep the conspiracy goes and yeah if mr.
Hoyt you know he controls not only you
know his own business and Empire but the
task hands first of other things a lot
of people a lot of different companies
law enforcement politicians obviously
but yes Mike are doing is the kid that
you know knew about the dolls on
Halloween night the ghosts that were
dressed up handing them out Julie
she felt one now let's move on to Dan
O'Brien this was my favorite scene in
the entire episode just the acting
between all of them I felt like
something I have a Tarantino movie it
was so good I just want to say that I
can't believe they let him leave I
understand the whole thing times of the
essence here but the fact that he's
trying to like hustle them for money
right now and give me 7 grand and I'll
give you the name it's like no no we
know about you come with us to the
department anything is good I kind of do
agree with you because the thing is that
we've seen how aggressive these two have
gotten with suspects in the past a ball
guy just told them he seems like scum
that you want to love his cousin he told
them all of it yeah that was a really
that that I yeah that was horrible
I was surprised by them letting him go
but you know they they don't really have
much to work with her now so they're
gonna know they're gonna wait wait a
little bit and I thought I was telling
just to see how he was reacting in the
sense you know he was very very skittish
and like on his toes even when he said
you know people are looking for you know
you're looking for Julie people are
looking for to keep me silent silent
yeah it's not even me he knows you see
someone there's like one point there's
one part in the diner when he looks up
here hears the door open anyone he looks
up like he thought it was someone you
know to come get him so you can tell
that there's a reason why he's kind of
so scared or that proves that the
conspiracy is so large yeah you know
there are many people trying to keep
this quiet now you put care of my phones
we need back here sake tomorrow maybe
the next day you can see the solution
your problems now the biggest mystery
has been solved what was that the two
wineglasses
yes Eliza was sleeping with Henry here
heaven effects yes
Henry I mean what are you doing man but
I love the scenes right before and you
had to think oh it's got to be Henry now
when he second he talks to lies at the
same time he's like no you can't do that
you knew I was like okay so it's
establishing a rapport between the two
totally and and the reason why I was
talking about how sharp Wayne might be
staff is memory it comes back to his
memory not only that but like he deduced
from what he saw how they're acting with
each other he could then he you know
brought up to his son so we we shouldn't
forget that like Wayne is also a
class detective or you know military
member like he knows what he's doing
when it comes to kind of interacting
with people and interrogating them on
their own so yeah we shouldn't we
shouldn't put it all off to his disease
that he has obviously but like he's he
might be just kind of like lying a
little bit in order to make sure that he
can kind of stay on top of people yeah
now let's fast-forward to Dan and Tom
Tom gets info from the two detectives
who were speaking a little too loud yeah
horrible detective yeah that's horrible
so I I'll go with that I I so I figured
that Tom probably knows a lot more about
Dan so he could find him from where he
was so I got bad next up we got one big
clue one big actually not even it's a
confirmation at this point it has to do
with point right weights the name that
he was probably gonna get these guys we
just rewind a second cuz I loved
Tom getting a little bit of revenge on
Dan Dan give me the night I said Dan had
been picking on Tom
maybe his entire like marriage you know
and and you know calling him like a
[ __ ] calling him all these things like
just like you could tell that tom was
not like anything stopped him at that
moment he finally got back and finally
got back to him was like tell me what
you know I'm gonna kill I'm gonna kill
you I'm gonna murder urine out Tom have
reached a point where he was willing to
kill someone and go to prison forever in
order to get this information I'm saying
I know who was paying her man I know
who's paying her and who would have a
problem she asked for more that's all I
was gonna give the cops man and so I was
gonna give the cops next we see Wayne
over at she'll pick Elaine the
intersection we've seen before we didn't
know exactly what that house was but now
we know it was the abandoned Purcell
house yes it wasn't water itself I was
like what hurts' house it's a whole
bunch of vandalism graffiti and it's
completely abandoned and there's a few
things to point out here one there's a
triangle with anion at Illuminati right
there okay okay and then on the other
side there is a circle a spiral which
we've seen in true detective season one
yes dealt with it was imagery dealing
with a larger pedophilia rings
throughout the region in season one it
kind of creates the the imagery and the
idea of that this being a much larger
conspiracy not just in this town of
Arkansas but also a panic that kind of
spread across the u.s. during this time
so we talked about this earlier about
that hole in the wall and how all the
options of what it could be it looks
like it was the fact that it was the
kids it was just the kids passing notes
back and forth yes I wasn't as devious
as a peephole no so then who in fact do
you think they were talking about who
were they worried about hearing their
conversations maybe their mom everything
points back to his got to be the mom
who's involved with this the way that
Tom's going about everything it seems
like it's the mom and the fact that she
worked for Hoyt oh yeah come on now it's
fast forward to the 90s and Amelia's
book signing a major character she'll
director shows up we get the the black
man with the one eye the one one white
eye now the interesting thing here is
that he was kind of scolding Amelia for
what she's doing right and it kind of
echoed the sentiments that we've heard
from Wayne in previous episodes this
season they kind of had to share the
same perspective now it's strange
because if he was involved in the the
devious part of this whole this whole
case and the whole conspiracy would he
be reacting like this in a public forum
I don't think so no and it almost seems
like he had a genuine relationship with
a girl separate from what happened to
them at Hoyt apparently he doesn't know
what happened to her either after this
right so he wants to know where she is
now where she is where she is if there's
any information on where she has stopped
making a book let's go find her by the
way I took that was that he actually had
a genuine friendship with these kids as
weird as that that is for I can see that
it's a weird but I don't think that is
it's linked to actually mr. Hoyt so you
don't know nothing
you just just making your money
and milk and they pain sir the author
has never claimed shame on you woman so
at the end of the episode it looks like
Dan at least gave Tom some name he gave
him a name win yep now he just a drunken
Tom Purcell decides to just walk up to
the mansion you know just jump over a
fence you know not worry about the
cameras or anything it's fine he'll make
his way around now the reasoning for all
this I believe it was way too easy to
get into that house they're luring him
and they they know that they know that
the possibility that he would be coming
maybe they're tipped off by Dan maybe
they're tipped off by someone else but
they know that Tom is coming and this is
working for them yeah they want to cover
up and make it look like these other
players Tom Lucy were involved in this
whole thing and that they're responsible
and their love and all of their silence
yeah Harris watching on the loyal camera
it's just what the cigarette I come on
in totally chill yeah just watch like
watching TV he doesn't really care like
so waiting to lure them at Lerman and
then kill him I think is there any
chance that Tom survives this we see him
alive in the next episode Orson I I sure
hope so but I do not think so I mean I
in sad to see scoot mcnairy his time to
come to the end maybe we'll get some
flashbacks from earlier timelines but I
I think it's over there's no way they're
gonna want a second online is Julie yeah
his last line is Julie exactly and the
fitness expression his face and he's
like what is going on here like he
figured it out but yeah no one else is
gonna know it's like when you find out
Superman's Clark Kent and then they
usually kill that person already wipe
the memory yeah it's not looking good
for you Tom
Josie
that'll do it for us guys let us know
any predictions or theories you might
have in the comment section below and
don't forget to hit that subscribe
button and we will see you all back here
for Episode seven next week